docs(auth): running Lighthouse on authenticated pages (#9628)
GoogleChrome/lighthouse: docs/authenticated-pages.md

# Running Lighthouse on Authenticated Pages

> Default runs of Lighthouse load a page as a "new user", with no previous session or storage data. This means that pages requiring authenticated access do not work without additional setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default runs of Lighthouse load a page as a "new user", with no previous session or storage data. This means that pages requiring authenticated access do not work without additional setup. You have four options for running Lighthouse on pages behind a login:
```

> ## Puppeteer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Option 1: Script the login with Puppeteer
```

> [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev) is the most flexible approach for auditing pages behind authentication with Lighthouse. See [recipes/auth](./recipes/auth) for more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev) is the most flexible approach for auditing pages behind authentication with Lighthouse. 

See [a working demo at /docs/recipes/auth](./recipes/auth).
```

since there's so much good stuff at the recipe link, I want to make it bigger and more obvious. :)

> ## Chrome DevTools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Option 2: Leverage logged-in state with Chrome DevTools
```

> The Audits panel in Chrome DevTools will never clear your session cookies, so you can log in to the target site and run Lighthouse without being logged out. If `localStorage` or `indexedDB` is important for your authentication purposes, be sure to uncheck `Clear storage`.

Reviewer: it'll never clear any cookies.
```suggestion
The Audits panel in Chrome DevTools will never clear your cookies, so you can log in to the target site and then run Lighthouse. If `localStorage` or `indexedDB` is important for your authentication purposes, be sure to uncheck `Clear storage`.
```

> ## Headers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Option 3: Pass custom request headers with Lighthouse CLI
```

CLI:
```sh
lighthouse http://www.example.com --view --extra-headers="{\"Authorization\":\"...\"}"
```

Node:
```js
const result = await lighthouse('http://www.example.com', {
  extraHeaders: {
    Authorization: '...',
  },
});
```

You could also set the `Cookie` header, but beware: it will [override any other Cookies you expect to be there](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/pull/9170). A workaround is to use Puppeteer's [`page.setCookie`](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer/blob/master/docs/api.md#pagesetcookiecookies).

> ## Chrome User Profile

Reviewer 2: I mentioned this in another comment, but we should pull in the authentication advice in https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/blob/master/docs/readme.md#testing-on-a-site-with-authentication over to here since people are using this method to set up a primed user profile

> ## Chrome User Profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Option 4: Reuse a prepared Chrome User Profile
```

> TODO: pending [#8957](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/issues/8957).

Reviewer 2: TODOs in the docs make the doc writers look bad when really in this case it's a functionality TODO and when it's done the docs can follow :)

Maybe after mentioning the existing workflow above, it could say that an easier method is being considered for implementation and you can learn more at [issue link] (and that the reader can weigh in there)? I'm not sure how much detail is important to include here vs redirecting over there
